readme.md, before:

# Awesome MCP - Model Context Protocol 

![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
![GitHub Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)
![GitHub Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg?style=social)](https://github.com/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)

A carefully curated collection of high-quality tools, libraries, research papers, projects, and tutorials centered around Model Context Protocol (MCP) — a novel paradigm designed to enable modular, adaptive coordination between large language models (LLMs) and external tools or data contexts. This repository serves as a comprehensive, well-organized knowledge hub for researchers and developers exploring the next frontier of interactive, context-aware AI systems.

The MCP framework facilitates fine-grained orchestration of model behavior through structured, tool-integrated communication protocols. It supports advanced workflows like adaptive reasoning, multi-tool routing, contextual memory access, and iterative refinement. By treating models not as static endpoints but as participants in a dynamic co-mining or co-creation loop, MCP pushes the boundaries of what intelligent systems can achieve.

To keep the community up-to-date with the latest developments, this repository is continuously enriched with newly published MCP-related papers, real-world use cases, and open-source implementations. From LangGraph-based architectures to custom tool routers and model-control interfaces, the collection aims to highlight both foundational ideas and emerging best practices.

Whether you are building AI agents, researching model-tool alignment, or experimenting with novel retrieval-augmented generation pipelines, this resource offers a centralized, evolving platform to explore the powerful and expanding universe of MCP-enabled systems.

> Our paper has been released on arXiv: [Model Context Protocols in Adaptive Transport Systems: A Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.19239). Please cite it if you find it useful.

```bibtex
@misc{chhetri2025modelcontextprotocolsadaptive,
      title={Model Context Protocols in Adaptive Transport Systems: A Survey}, 
      author={Gaurab Chhetri and Shriyank Somvanshi and Md Monzurul Islam and Shamyo Brotee and Mahmuda Sultana Mimi and Dipti Koirala and Biplov Pandey and Subasish Das},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2508.19239},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AI},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.19239}, 
}
```

## Last Updated
September 20, 2025 at 01:46:04 AM UTC


## Theorem

## Papers (21)
- [Agentic Semantic Control for Autonomous Wireless Space Networks: Extending Space-O-RAN with MCP-Driven Distributed Intelligence](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10925)
- [Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol Ecosystem](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040)
- [ETDI: Mitigating Tool Squatting and Rug Pull Attacks in Model Context Protocol (MCP) by using OAuth-Enhanced Tool Definitions and Policy-Based Access Control](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01333)
- [Gaming Tool Preferences in Agentic LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.18135)
- [Enterprise-Grade Security for the Model Context Protocol (MCP): Frameworks and Mitigation Strategies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08623)
- [Securing GenAI Multi-Agent Systems Against Tool Squatting: A Zero Trust Registry-Based Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19951)
- [MCP Bridge: A Lightweight, LLM-Agnostic RESTful Proxy for Model Context Protocol Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08999)
- [MCP Safety Audit: LLMs with the Model Context Protocol Allow Major Security Exploits](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.03767)
- [Beyond Formal Semantics for Capabilities and Skills: Model Context Protocol in Manufacturing](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.11180)
- [Mind the Metrics: Patterns for Telemetry-Aware In-IDE AI Application Development using the Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.11019)
- [We Should Identify and Mitigate Third-Party Safety Risks in MCP-Powered Agent Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13666)
- [Model Context Protocol (MCP) at First Glance: Studying the Security and Maintainability of MCP Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13538)
- [Gradientsys: A Multi-Agent LLM Scheduler with ReAct Orchestration](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06520)
- [MemTool: Optimizing Short-Term Memory Management for Dynamic Tool Calling in LLM Agent Multi-Turn Conversations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.21428)
- [Magentic-UI: Towards Human-in-the-loop Agentic Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22358)
- [MCP2OSC: Parametric Control by Natural Language](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10414)
- [Help or Hurdle? Rethinking Model Context Protocol-Augmented Large Language Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.12566)
- [Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Ecosystem](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040)
- [AniME: Adaptive Multi-Agent Planning for Long Animation Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.18781)
- [MCP-Bench: Benchmarking Tool-Using LLM Agents with Complex Real-World Tasks via MCP Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.20453)
- [Towards Agentic OS: An LLM Agent Framework for Linux Schedulers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.01245)


## Library

## Tutorial

### Written Tutorials

### Video Tutorials

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to this repository! If you have a resource that you believe should be included, please submit a pull request or open an issue. Contributions can include:

- New libraries or tools related to MCP.
- Tutorials or guides that help users understand and implement MCP.
- Research papers that advance the field of MCP.
- Any other resources that you find valuable for the community

## How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your changes.
3. Make your changes and commit them with a clear message.
4. Push your changes to your forked repository.
5. Submit a pull request to the main repository.

Before contributing, take a look at the existing resources to avoid duplicates.

## License

This repository is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](LICENSE). You are free to share and adapt the material, provided you give appropriate credit, link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp)](https://star-history.com/#gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp&Date)

Commit message:

Revise paper announcement and citation format in README
Updated the announcement section for the paper release and modified the citation format.

readme.md, after:

# Awesome MCP - Model Context Protocol 

![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
![GitHub Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)
![GitHub Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg?style=social)](https://github.com/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp.svg)

A carefully curated collection of high-quality tools, libraries, research papers, projects, and tutorials centered around Model Context Protocol (MCP) — a novel paradigm designed to enable modular, adaptive coordination between large language models (LLMs) and external tools or data contexts. This repository serves as a comprehensive, well-organized knowledge hub for researchers and developers exploring the next frontier of interactive, context-aware AI systems.

The MCP framework facilitates fine-grained orchestration of model behavior through structured, tool-integrated communication protocols. It supports advanced workflows like adaptive reasoning, multi-tool routing, contextual memory access, and iterative refinement. By treating models not as static endpoints but as participants in a dynamic co-mining or co-creation loop, MCP pushes the boundaries of what intelligent systems can achieve.

To keep the community up-to-date with the latest developments, this repository is continuously enriched with newly published MCP-related papers, real-world use cases, and open-source implementations. From LangGraph-based architectures to custom tool routers and model-control interfaces, the collection aims to highlight both foundational ideas and emerging best practices.

> [!NOTE]
> 📢 **Announcement:** Our paper is now available on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.19239)!  
> **Title:** *Model Context Protocols in Adaptive Transport Systems: A Survey*  
> If you find this paper interesting, please consider citing our work. Thank you for your support!

```bibtex
@article{chhetri2025model,
  title={Model Context Protocols in Adaptive Transport Systems: A Survey},
  author={Chhetri, Gaurab and Somvanshi, Shriyank and Islam, Md Monzurul and Brotee, Shamyo and Mimi, Mahmuda Sultana and Koirala, Dipti and Pandey, Biplov and Das, Subasish},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.19239},
  year={2025}
}
```

Whether you are building AI agents, researching model-tool alignment, or experimenting with novel retrieval-augmented generation pipelines, this resource offers a centralized, evolving platform to explore the powerful and expanding universe of MCP-enabled systems.

## Last Updated
September 20, 2025 at 01:46:04 AM UTC


## Theorem

## Papers (21)
- [Agentic Semantic Control for Autonomous Wireless Space Networks: Extending Space-O-RAN with MCP-Driven Distributed Intelligence](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10925)
- [Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol Ecosystem](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040)
- [ETDI: Mitigating Tool Squatting and Rug Pull Attacks in Model Context Protocol (MCP) by using OAuth-Enhanced Tool Definitions and Policy-Based Access Control](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01333)
- [Gaming Tool Preferences in Agentic LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.18135)
- [Enterprise-Grade Security for the Model Context Protocol (MCP): Frameworks and Mitigation Strategies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08623)
- [Securing GenAI Multi-Agent Systems Against Tool Squatting: A Zero Trust Registry-Based Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19951)
- [MCP Bridge: A Lightweight, LLM-Agnostic RESTful Proxy for Model Context Protocol Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08999)
- [MCP Safety Audit: LLMs with the Model Context Protocol Allow Major Security Exploits](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.03767)
- [Beyond Formal Semantics for Capabilities and Skills: Model Context Protocol in Manufacturing](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.11180)
- [Mind the Metrics: Patterns for Telemetry-Aware In-IDE AI Application Development using the Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.11019)
- [We Should Identify and Mitigate Third-Party Safety Risks in MCP-Powered Agent Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13666)
- [Model Context Protocol (MCP) at First Glance: Studying the Security and Maintainability of MCP Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13538)
- [Gradientsys: A Multi-Agent LLM Scheduler with ReAct Orchestration](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06520)
- [MemTool: Optimizing Short-Term Memory Management for Dynamic Tool Calling in LLM Agent Multi-Turn Conversations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.21428)
- [Magentic-UI: Towards Human-in-the-loop Agentic Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22358)
- [MCP2OSC: Parametric Control by Natural Language](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10414)
- [Help or Hurdle? Rethinking Model Context Protocol-Augmented Large Language Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.12566)
- [Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Ecosystem](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040)
- [AniME: Adaptive Multi-Agent Planning for Long Animation Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.18781)
- [MCP-Bench: Benchmarking Tool-Using LLM Agents with Complex Real-World Tasks via MCP Servers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.20453)
- [Towards Agentic OS: An LLM Agent Framework for Linux Schedulers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.01245)


## Library

## Tutorial

### Written Tutorials

### Video Tutorials

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to this repository! If you have a resource that you believe should be included, please submit a pull request or open an issue. Contributions can include:

- New libraries or tools related to MCP.
- Tutorials or guides that help users understand and implement MCP.
- Research papers that advance the field of MCP.
- Any other resources that you find valuable for the community

## How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your changes.
3. Make your changes and commit them with a clear message.
4. Push your changes to your forked repository.
5. Submit a pull request to the main repository.

Before contributing, take a look at the existing resources to avoid duplicates.

## License

This repository is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](LICENSE). You are free to share and adapt the material, provided you give appropriate credit, link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp)](https://star-history.com/#gauravfs-14/awesome-mcp&Date)
